In MySQL, both CHAR and VARCHAR are used to store string data, but they differ in terms of how they store data and how they handle storage space and performance. Here’s a detailed comparison between the two:

1. CHAR
Definition: CHAR is a fixed-length string data type. When you define a CHAR column, you specify a fixed length, and MySQL always allocates that amount of space for each value, regardless of the actual length of the data stored.
Storage: If the data stored is shorter than the defined length, MySQL pads the remaining space with spaces to match the fixed length.
Performance: Since CHAR is fixed-length, it can be faster for retrieving data because each row has a consistent size, making it easier to calculate offsets. This can be advantageous when dealing with very small and fixed-size strings.
Use Cases: Suitable for storing data where the length is consistent, such as fixed-length codes, phone numbers (without varying formats), or other standardized strings.


Example:
CREATE TABLE example (
    code CHAR(10)
);
Explanation: Here, every value in the code column will occupy exactly 10 characters. If you store the value 'ABC', it will be stored as 'ABC ' (with 7 trailing spaces).

2. VARCHAR
Definition: VARCHAR is a variable-length string data type. When you define a VARCHAR column, you specify the maximum length, but MySQL only allocates as much space as needed to store the actual data, plus an additional byte (or two bytes if the length can exceed 255) to store the length of the string.
Storage: Stores only the characters needed, without padding. It requires 1 or 2 extra bytes to record the length of the string.
Performance: While VARCHAR can be more space-efficient than CHAR, it might be slightly slower in certain cases due to the variable length, as MySQL has to calculate the length of each string on retrieval.
Use Cases: Suitable for storing data where the length can vary widely, such as names, addresses, or descriptions.


Example:
CREATE TABLE example (
    name VARCHAR(50)
);
Explanation: Here, the name column can store up to 50 characters, but if you store 'ABC', only 3 characters are stored, and no additional spaces are added.

Key Differences
Length:
CHAR: Fixed-length. The defined length is always used, padding with spaces if necessary.
VARCHAR: Variable-length. Only the actual data is stored, plus an extra byte or two to store the length.

Storage Space:
CHAR: Uses a fixed amount of storage, which can lead to wasted space if the stored data is shorter than the defined length.
VARCHAR: Uses only the amount of storage needed for the data, plus additional bytes for the length.

Performance:
CHAR: May be faster for fixed-length data due to consistent storage size.
VARCHAR: More flexible but can be slightly slower for retrieval due to variable length.

Use Cases:
CHAR: Best for storing data with a consistent length (e.g., country codes, fixed-length IDs).
VARCHAR: Best for storing data with varying lengths (e.g., names, email addresses).

Summary
Use CHAR when the data length is consistent and known, and performance with fixed-length data is important.
Use VARCHAR when the data length varies, and space efficiency is a priority.