In Java and other object-oriented programming languages, Dependency Injection (DI) is a design pattern that allows a class to receive its dependencies
from an external source rather than creating them itself. This promotes loose coupling and makes the code more modular and easier to test.

There are three main types of Dependency Injection:

1. Constructor Injection
Constructor injection is a type of dependency injection where the dependencies are provided to a class through its constructor.
 This method ensures that a class is always instantiated with its required dependencies.

Advantages:

Makes the dependency mandatory; the object cannot be created without it. compulsory...
Ideal for injecting dependencies that are essential for the object’s behavior.
Promotes immutability by setting dependencies only once, at the time of object creation.
Example:

public class Service {
    private final Repository repository;

    public Service(Repository repository) { //in this case there is need to remember the type and order of constructor parameters
        this.repository = repository;
    }
}
2. Setter Injection
Setter injection is a type of dependency injection where the dependencies are provided through public setter methods after the object is constructed.
 This method allows for optional dependencies and can provide default values.

Advantages:

Allows for optional dependencies and changing dependencies at runtime.
More flexible, as dependencies can be changed or set later.
Example:

public class Service {
    private Repository repository;

    public void setRepository(Repository repository) {// in this type no need to remember type and parameters it will take other we can use multiple setter method
        this.repository = repository;
    }
}
3. Field (Property) Injection
Field injection is a type of dependency injection where the dependencies are injected directly into the class fields.
This is often done using reflection (like in Spring Framework) and annotations like @Autowired.

Advantages:

Simplifies the code by eliminating the need for constructors or setters for dependencies.
Useful for injecting dependencies into legacy code where you do not want to refactor constructors or add setters.
Example:

public class Service {
    @Autowired
    private Repository repository;
}
Comparison of Dependency Injection Types:
Type	                     Description	                                          Advantages	                                        Disadvantages
Constructor Injection	    Dependencies are provided through a constructor.	    - Mandatory dependencies are enforced.
                                                                                     - Promotes immutability and simplicity.	- Less flexible as dependencies cannot be changed
                                                                                 -you can check what dependencies class require
                                                                                  and its order by looking on constructor                       after object creation.
                                                                                                                                  - Can become cumbersome with many dependencies.
Setter Injection	    Dependencies are provided through setter methods.	    - Supports optional and changeable dependencies.
                                                                                - More flexible and test-friendly.	                - Can lead to partially constructed objects
                                                                                                                                        if all dependencies are not set.
                                                                                                                                        - Breaks immutability.
Field Injection	        Dependencies are injected directly into class fields.	- Simplifies code with less boilerplate.
                                                                                - Useful for injecting dependencies in legacy code.     	- Breaks encapsulation by making
                                                                                                                                        fields accessible outside.
                                                                                                                                        - Harder to identify required dependencies
                                                                                                                                         and makes testing harder.

Conclusion
Each type of dependency injection has its own use cases and advantages. Constructor injection is generally preferred for mandatory dependencies and promoting immutability,
 setter injection is good for optional dependencies, and field injection is convenient but less commonly recommended due to concerns with encapsulation and testing.
  The choice depends on the specific requirements and constraints of your project.